docs: data structure (#69184)
metabase/metabase: docs/data-studio/data-structure.md

Outside Data Studio, entity type determines the record icons in the [details view](../exploration-and-organization/exploration.md#view-details-of-a-record).

### Source

**Source** describes where the data comes from. It can be useful when you want to identify tables that are, for example, ingested tables, or tables coming from CSV uploads.

Metabase will automatically assign the source "Metabase transforms” to tables created by [Metabase transforms](./transforms/transforms-overview.md), and source "Uploaded data" to tables created by new [CSV uploads](../databases/uploads.md) (CSV uploads that you created before getting Data Studio will not be automatically tagged).

## Table and field metadata

You can edit field descriptions, types, visibility settings, and formatting. For example, you can choose to display a filter on a field as a dropdown, or display days as `21.03.2026` instead of `03/21/2026`.

> See [Table metadata editing](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Table metadata editing](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md).
```

## Segments

Segments are saved filters on tables. You can use segments to create an official definition of a subset of customers, users, or products that everyone on your team can refer to consistently (for example what constitutes an "active user").

People will see segments as options in the Filter block of the [query builder](../questions/query-builder/editor.md).

For now, in addition to Data Studio, segments can also be managed through **Admin settings > Table Metadata**, see [Segments in table metadata](../data-modeling/segments.md).

To see all segments on a table, select the table in **Data Structure** and switch to **Segments** tab.

### Create a segment

1. Select the table in **Data Structure**.
2. Scroll down and switch to **Segments**.
3. Click on **+New Segment**. You'll see an abridged version of Metabase's query builder.
4. Add the filters describing the segment (e.g. `Active = true`) and name the segment.
5. To preview the records in the segment, click on the **three dots** icon next to the segment's name and select **Preview**.
6. Save.

> ### Delete a segment

Reviewer: Should move this section down. Somewhat strange to explain how to delete segments before explaining how they're used.

Deleting a segment will not break questions using it. The questions that use the segment will keep using the same filters as before.

1. Select the table in **Data Structure**.
2. Scroll down and switch to **Segments** and choose your segment.
3. On the segment's page, click on the **three dots** icon next to the segment's name and select **Remove segment**.

### Use a segment in the query builder

To use a segment in the query builder, start a new question from the table that the segment is based on, and select the segment in the **Filter** block. Segment's saved filters will be applied behind the scenes.

## Measures

Measures are saved aggregations on tables. You can use measures to create an official saved calculation, e.g. what "Net Promoter Score" means.

People will see measures as options in the Summarize block of the [query builder](../questions/query-builder/editor.md).

To see all measures on a table, select the table in **Data Structure** and switch to **Measures** tab.

### Create a measure

1. Select the table in **Data Structure**.
2. Scroll down and switch to **Measures**.
3. Click on **+New measure**. You'll see an abridged version of Metabase's query builder.

> 4. Add your aggregation. You will probably be interested in [Custom expressions](../questions/query-builder/expressions.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add your aggregation. For more complex aggregations, check out [custom expressions](../questions/query-builder/expressions.md).
```

Explains why.
